Palo, Leyte
Municipality in Leyte
Palo, officially the municipality of palo, is a 3rd class
municipality in the province of Leyte, Philippines.
According to the 2015 census, it has a population of 70,502 people. The
municipality is the seat of most government departments, bureaus and regional
offices of Region VIII, although some are situated at the neighboring city of Tacloban.
The Metropolitan Cathedral of our Lord's Transfiguration, also known as Palo Metropolitan
Cathedral or simply Palo cathedral, is a Roman Catholic church located at Palo, Leyte in the Philippines
belonging to the Vicariate of Palo under the Metropolitan Archdiocesed of Palo.

Southern Leyte is a province in the Eastern Visayas region. Its capital is the city of Maasin.
Southern Leyte was a Sub-province of Leyte until it was made into an independent province.
Monte-Cueva-Accessed by a steep stairway, this Catholic shrine features a chapel in a cave & an Ampitheater.
Address: MAasin City, Southern Leyte.

Biliran is an island province in the Philippines located in the Eastern Visayas region, Biliran is one of the country's
smallest and newest provinces. Fromerly a sub-province of Leyte, it became an independent province in 1992. Biliran lies less
than a kilometer north of the island of Leyte. A bridge-causeway fixed link over Poro Island connects the province to Leyte.
Its capital is the municipality of Naval on the western coast of the island.
Sambauan Island- It has two main islands and the rocky terrain is covered with grass

Samar is the third largest island in the Philippines. Located in Eastern Visayas, within central Philippines.
The island is divided into three provinces: Samar, Northern Samar, and Eastern Samar.
These three provinces, along with the provinces on the nearby islands of Leyte and Biliran are part of the
Eastern Visayas region.
Samar is the Easternmost island in Visayas. The island is seperated from Leyte by the San JUanico Strait, whic at its narrowest point is
only about 2 kilometers acroos.
This strait is crossed by the San Juanico Bridge.
Bangon Falls-Tranquilo natural are offering guided hikes to striking waterfalls.

Northern Samar is a province in the Philippines located in the Eastern Visayas region.
Its capital is Catarman and is located at the northern portion of the island of Samar.
Bordering the province to the south are the provinces of Samr and Eastern Samar.
Biri island is where the gods go to wage war. This is where the San Bernandino Strait
combats the mighty Pacific as the latter pushes its tides into the Visayas domain.
The elements, who bear witness to the ferocious duel, are caught trapped in the battlefield.
The winds sometimes cheear, sometimes howl as they watch from above. The waves, in their desperate attempt to flee,
lap up the edges of the shore. And the land, Biri Island, referees the constant clash but not without finding a 
silver lining, gettin a hold of it, and never letting go. 
As it takes the beating from the seas, who just pound its hard face with one blow after another, it allow's
the god's skilled hands to shape its cliffs. Every punching wave is a stroke of art and every gusty storm is a painful
dash of necessary sacrifice - the torture in art, the beauty in chaos. The result, staggering rock formations that
intimidate not just with their immensity but, more importantly, their splendor.

Eastern Samar is the province in the Philippines located in the Eastern Visayas region. Its capital is the city of Borongan.
Eastern Samar occupies the eastern portion of the island of Samar.
Tubabao is an island off the southeastern point of Samar Island. It is one of the islands comprising the town of Guiuan in
the province of Eastern Samar, in the east central Philippines.